feat: core data retention ucr (#884)
edgexfoundry/edgex-docs: docs_src/design/ucr/Core-Data-Cache.md

> ## Core Data Cache

Reviewer: I don't agree that this UCR is describing [cache](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_(computing)) or cache-like requirements. It is true that Core Data can be used as a cache to query device data faster than if the query was sent to the device, but that is already possible. I think what is being asked here is the addition or rather improvement of [data retention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_retention) management in EdgeX (which could involve Core Data, Scheduler, device metadata, etc).

Author: Agree - I have renamed accordingly and pulled mention of "cache" as it relates to implementation thoughts.

For example, as a temperature sensor may report the current temperature (the device resource) very frequently (say once every 5 seconds), that data may only be sent to other services or systems every minute.  The user may wish to have only the last two readings persisted and subsequently sent north during the minute interval (batch and send).  Thus, core data becomes a kind of cache for a certain number of readings.

### Existing solutions
Today, core data will persist all data sent it.  The scheduler can be used to “clean” older data (data collected with a timestamp exceeding a specific timeframe).  But there is no way to only retain only X number or latest readings.  There is also no way to query for the “latest” readings.

### Requirements

> - Cap the number of a particular device’s readings are kept/persisted in core data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Cap the number of a device readings, per resource name, that are kept/persisted in core data.
```

> - Cap the number of a device readings, per resource name, that are kept/persisted in core data.

Reviewer: Is it a hard requirement to cap the number of readings to an exact number or is it sufficient to automatically purge entries beyond the limit? I'm asking because this will significantly affect the design and implementation. The former will require a FIFO persisted data storage, the latter can be achieved by just purging data at an optimal interval.

Author: Fair and good question.  I have been assuming that an exact number is required.  I will add this as a requirement but hope folks like @TomBrennan-Eaton can provide comment.
When you say computationally expensive - I am assuming because we need to do a delete or remove for each insert vs doing a delete once in a while which may not be for every insert.

Reviewer 3: Interesting - I'd say that our interest is to ensure a minimum number of available entries; exceeding that would be fine (probably expected, for very recent readings). 
Is there an easy way to determine the "optimal interval" for purging? Could it be based on total count exceeding some high-water mark, as well as by time, in case we don't have a good means to determine an optimal time for every deployment?

Reviewer: Yes, enforcing a hard cap is computationally more expensive especially if the data is persisted on disk. I don't know about Redis, but some time series databases accept delete requests and commit them in the background at a suitable interval. I guess it is best to leave that to the ADR and drop the hard requirement **if it there it is no use case for it.**

I think a configurable purging interval together with a high watermark as @TomBrennan-Eaton suggests could work.

> - The number of persisted device readings is configurable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The number of persisted device readings, per resource name, is configurable
```

Reviewer 2: I assume this is one configuration setting that controls the cache for all readings, not by device.

Reviewer 3: When I first read Lenny's suggestion, it seemed like it was suggesting each resource have a separate configuration. To be clearer, maybe:
"The number of persisted device readings is configurable, and this configuration applies to all resources of all devices in core-data."

> - Queries of core data should allow for returning the latest X number of readings 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Queries of core data should allow for returning the latest X number of readings per resource name.
```

> - The number of persisted device readings is configurable, and this configuration setting applies to all resources o all devices in core-data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The number of persisted device readings is configurable, and this configuration setting applies to all resources on all devices in core-data.
```
